How is authentication implemented? Same set up, we get a user, we get our backend, the server side code and the
database
and now typically, a user will send a login request.
Now obviously for that, a user, a visitor of our page needs to have signed up before but after you signed
up,
you can login with your email and password and on the server, we check whether that email and password
combination is valid,
whether we have a user with that e-mail and that password in our database.
If that is the case, we create a session for this user and you learned how this works in the last module
and this session then identifies this user.
This is required because otherwise without a session, even if we find out that the credentials are valid,
for the very next request the user would be logged out again because remember, requests interact separated
from each other,
they don't know anything about each other,
we need a session to connect them,
that is why we create one with the user or the authentication information. We then return a 200 response,
so basically a success response and we obviously also store the cookie belonging to that session on the
client,
we return that with that response
so that we really established a session. And thereafter, the user is able to visit our restricted routes
because now this cookie is sent with every request, on the server we can connect this cookie to a
session and in the session we have the information whether that user is signed in or not
and if the user is signed in, we can grant access to certain resources,
this is how authentication is implemented in any web application that renders views, we'll learn a different
way of adding authentication later when we work with a rest and graphQL APIs
but for a traditional web app as we are building it here where we do render ejs or handlebars or
whatever templating engine you use, where we render such views, there we will use this session based
authentication approach.